# mail2wiki
Archive e-mails with attachments as simple files in a filesystem with html index files for local browsing

## Purpose/Motivation
* I would like to archive my e-mails locally in addition to storing them on the servers of an e-mail service provider.
* I did not find any mail user agent or similar program able to store e-mails with directly readable attachments in a file system.
* Instead of writing a new mail user agent, I decided to write a script for local browsing of the mailbox. But all messages and attachments can also be read *and searched* as plain files in a file system. (Available wiki software for html delivery like *ikiwiki* or *gollum* turned out to have a bad performance for big archives, so currently the script creates non-editable html index files. *gitit* may be an alternative but was not tested.)

## Status
In development
* Needs improvement of the citation cutoff heuristics.
* Needs improvement of the e-mail import. Currently, the Linux shell program `munpack` is used, but it has several drawbacks, including lots of charset encoding problems. We should probably switch to a Perl mail handling library.
* Filenames and source comments are partly in German. Translation aid to our lingua franca would be very welcome.
* The currently used html to text filter `html2text` has a very bad performance for some messages (e.g. e-mails generated by the Confluence wiki system).

## Description
* The shell script reads e-mails (in RFC5322 MIME internet format) in a given directory and stores the messages in a folder structure like "Contacts/Firstname_Lastname/MessageID1/message.txt", the MIME attachments being in the same folder as message.txt.
* This folder structure will be rendered for display in a web browser.
* Optionally, a collection of contacts in a .vcf vcard file is used for assigning the "Firstname_Lastname" folders to multiple e-mail adresses.
* "Firstname_Lastname" folders are automatically created for new contacts not present in the .vcf file.
* There are some heuristics for deletion of citations below the main message in reply e-mails in order to improve the conversation reading experience.
* The result of the whole process is a conversation view with attachments of all messages, ordered by the contact names. This is very similar to the conversation view for smartphone messages.
* As mail2wiki.sh memorizes the message IDs, the script can by run again and again over the mailbox, archiving additional e-mails.

## Usage
1. Edit the configuration in the file mail2wiki.sh
2. Run mail2wiki.sh with either `create` or `update` as command line option

## System Requirements
* sh shell
* Unix command line tools: sed, grep, awk, file, iconv, strings, tr, expr, cut, wc, dirname, basename, find, perl
* Unix mail handling tools: reformail, munpack
* Other unix tools: html2text

## Related
This project is similar to Mail2Wiki by ChinaXing <https://github.com/ChinaXing/Mail2Wiki>. As that project has a better software architecture, it might by a good idea to merge this project into that one. However, this would require significant changes to ChinaXing's architecture:
* Handling of archived e-mails
* Handling of contacts/.vcf files
* Handling of local input files
* Separation/deletion of citations in reply e-mails
